---
layout: post
title: iPhone 3G
date: '2008-06-30T08:58:00.000-07:00'
author: Yevgeniy Brikman
tags:
- Gadgets
modified_time: '2011-08-06T15:11:18.050-07:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5422014336627804072.post-6931080476771923703
blogger_orig_url: http://brikis98.blogspot.com/2008/06/iphone-3g.html
thumbnail_path: blog/thumbs/iphone-3g.png
---

The original iPhone, released in 2007, was a "game-changing" phone and 
multimedia device. It didn't really bring anything new to the field, but as is 
typical of Apple, it showed up with an unprecedented level of style and 
polish. It was an attractive, slick device, with a beautiful screen and a 
great UI. It was a fantastic iPod with a great web browser, some cool 
applications and hell, even a decent phone. Since then, many other phone 
manufacturers have been trying to copy it. While many had it beat in terms of 
features, no one had been able to touch the iPhone's "cool factor" and match 
it's excellent UI (with the possible exception of the recently released [HTC 
Touch Diamond](http://www.htc.com/www/product.aspx?id=46278), which comes 
pretty close). 

{% include figure.html path="blog/thumbs/iphone-3g.png" alt="iPhone 3g" %}

On June 9, 2008, Apple announced the successor to the Iphone, the [iPhone 
3G](http://www.apple.com/iphone/). It is pretty evident that Apple has raised 
the bar. Not only does the phone look good, it now has the 
[specs](http://www.apple.com/iphone/specs.html) to back it up. In fact, it has 
*just* about everything I'd want in a PDA-phone:

1. Small form factor 
1. Beautiful screen 
1. Quad band phone (works worldwide) 
1. 3G connectivity (fast Internet) 
1. Tons of storage (8GB or 16GB) 
1. Wi-Fi (free Internet at hot spots) 
1. Bluetooth 
1. GPS 
1. Decent 2.0 megapixel camera 
1. Supposedly great battery life 
1. Same (or better?) slick UI and iPod features 
1. Just $199 for the 8gb model 

Just looking at the spec sheet, the phone is extremely tempting. However, 
if you read between the lines and take note of what's *not* on the spec sheet, 
there are a few serious issues: 

1. Apple would have you believe that despite all the great features, they have 
*reduced* the price: the 8GB model is just $199. But don't be fooled: the 
phone can only be bought with a 2 year (or 3 year?) contract that *must* 
include a phone plan AND a data plan. Moreover, the plan which will be at 
least $10/month more than the previous iPhone contracts, which adds up to $240 
over 2 years. And the AT&amp;T contracts aren't cheap to begin with: it's 
minimum ~$40/month for the call plan and ~$40/month for the data connectivity. 
That's at least $80/month, or nearly $2000 over 2 years. But you didn't really 
think it would be cheap, did you? 
1. The phone does not have a physical keyboard. The original iPhone used an 
on-screen (touch-sensitive) keyboard and in my opinion, it just didn't work 
very well. I would make a mistake every 4th letter while typing and had to go 
quite slow. I hope they've improved it in some way for the new phone or it'll 
seriously hamper usability. 
1. It doesn't look like the phone will support copy &amp; paste. Along with 
the keyboard issue, this is another huge gap in the UI. I imagine it's tough 
to do copy and paste on a touch screen (without a precision stylus), but I'm 
sure they could find a reasonable way to handle it. If [these 
guys](http://www.biocow.com/iCopy/) can hack up a crappy 3rd party solution, 
certainly Apple could improve on it? 
1. No bluetooth profiles? The original iPhone, and possibly this new one, 
*only* let you use bluetooth for connecting a headset. However, stereo 
bluetooth and A2DP are not available, so you can't stream music wirelessly. 
Moreover, there is no bluetooth tethering, so you can't use your iPhone as a 
modem for your laptop. Finally, there is also no bluetooth file transfer. 
1. Screen is not VGA. This is a relatively minor issue, especially given 
the iPhone's excellent UI and web browser, but it would've been really nice to 
have a 640x480 screen. 

So, will the iPhone be worth the money? Is ~$2000 over 2 years worth the 
convenience of having access to your music, Internet and GPS everywhere you 
go? I'm not sure. I guess the first step is to wait for the reviews to start 
cropping up. The iPhone 3g will be out on July 11, so keep your eyes open. 