---
layout: post
title: New job
date: '2008-01-10T12:45:00.000-08:00'
author: Yevgeniy Brikman
tags: 
modified_time: '2008-01-11T08:40:22.688-08:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5422014336627804072.post-7364428768592501458
blogger_orig_url: http://brikis98.blogspot.com/2008/01/new-job.html
thumbnail_path: blog/thumbs/tripadvisor-logo.png
---

It has been officially announced at work, so I guess I can post it here now 
too: I'm changing jobs. After a year and a half of working at 
[Cisco](http://www.cisco.com/), I'm heading over to 
[TripAdvisor](http://www.tripadvisor.com/) (TA). It should be an interesting 
change, going from a massive company (60,000 employees) to a small one (~150 
employees), 12-14 month release cycles to 2 week release cycles, and working 
on VoIP software/hardware to working on a website. I'm a bit nervous, but also 
very excited. 

{% include figure.html path="blog/thumbs/tripadvisor-logo.png" alt="TripAdvisor" url="http://www.tripadvisor.com/" %}

TA is in Needham, MA, so my commute will be about 9 miles and 10 minutes 
shorter. It seems like a great group of engineers, a comfortable work 
environment and apparently, a very solid revenue stream. They are redesigning 
their site and adding new features focused around the latest web 2.0 wave, 
including social networking, video, and the like. For example, a bunch of 
people already have TA's "where I've been" application on Facebook, which is a 
map where you put pins on places you've visited. 

The interview with TA went well - a good variety of personality, experience 
and technical questions - and as usual, I came out of the interview knowing 
more than when I came in. I also had a second interview with them where I met 
the company's VP and CEO, which was cool. Of course, it made me laugh: at 
Cisco, we all feel "privelaged" to watch the CEO (John Chambers) on IPTV. And 
his visits to the Boxborough campus, which happen once every few years, are 
special events. 

Why am I leaving Cisco? Cisco has treated me very well, I work with a lot of 
smart engineers, I have a great manager and I've put together some cool 
projects. I'm not miserable and would still recommend Cisco to a lot of 
people. There really isn't one major thing that bugs me, but if there's 
anything I can complain about, it's that Cisco isn't really a *software* 
company. Their bread and butter is hardware and most of the processes are tied 
into it. For example, release cycles are so long that software is often 
obsolete before it goes out the door. We spend an enormous amount of time 
planning a project and seem to refuse to accept that you just can't plan &amp; 
predict everything. All the internal websites and tools look like they were 
built circa 1996 and add a huge amount of overhead to everything we do. 

Many of these are a result of being a huge company. Many of these are 
constantly improving. But the software industry moves real quick and it takes 
an agile company to do something truly  cutting edge and impressive. You can 
call Cisco a lot of things, but agile is not one of them. I'm young, motivated 
and it looks like TA can provide the kind of fast paced environment I need. I 
think it'll also be a great way to see how an Internet company is run. Of 
course, the big offer I got from TA helped the decision along as well. 

I was also told that TA's standard starter package for a new employee consists 
of: 

1. Macbook Pro 
1. 30" display 
1. iPod 

Not sure how I feel about developing on a Mac&mdash;I'm sure I'll get used to 
it&mdash;but #2 and #3 sound just fine. My mind is already racing with ways to improve 
the TA website. For example, I think it would be cool if the website had a 
"trip planner" section: a place where you can enter each of the destinations, 
how you're getting between them, the hotels you'll stay at, restaurants to eat 
at and so on. You can use it to plan the trip as well as tie in your reviews, 
pictures and videos when you come back. Other people should be able to comment 
on it, suggest improvements, ask questions and so on. You could store each set 
of travel plans in a "wishlist" of dream vacations and users should be able to 
rate them, with the most popular trips visible on the front of the site. 

At any rate, it should be interesting working on a website that gets ~2 
million unique visitors a day. My work will be visible to the world and my mom 
will finally be able to see what I do. Hell, up until recently, she thought I 
worked at the other [Sysco](http://www.sysco.com/)&mdash;you know, the food 
company. Trucks would drive by and she'd proudly point out to her friends 
"that's where my son works." Oh well. 