---
layout: post
title: A look back at 2009
date: '2010-01-06T10:39:00.000-08:00'
author: Yevgeniy Brikman
tags:
- Crossfit
- Health and Fitness
modified_time: '2011-08-06T14:47:43.508-07:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5422014336627804072.post-2607210173712289992
blogger_orig_url: http://brikis98.blogspot.com/2010/01/look-back-at-2009.html
---

What a year it has been. I moved to CA, joined CF Sunnyvale, resolved to try 
to qualify for the CF Games, and got myself into the best shape of my life. I 
had fun going through my [workout 
journal](http://forums.anandtech.com/showthread.php?t=194624) and seeing some 
of the improvements I've made: 

* Squat: 315 --&gt; 405 
* OH Press: 165 --&gt; 195 
* Deadlift: 405 --&gt; 455 
* OH Squat: 165 --&gt; 205 
* Power clean: 215 --&gt; 265 
* Snatch: 135 --&gt; 195 
* Consecutive kipping pull-ups: 30 --&gt; 40 
* Consecutive air squats: 50 --&gt; 100 
* Consecutive sit-ups: 60 --&gt; 100 
* Fran: 5:58 --&gt; 3:20 
* Murph: 40:01 --&gt; 32:29 
* Cindy: 22+ rounds --&gt; 28 rounds 
* Angie: 22:04 --&gt; 16:28 

## 2009 goals: how did I do? 

Looking at my 2009 goals, they can be broken down into 4 categories: 

### Success 

Squat 365, deadlift 455, press 195, 1000lb CFT, OH squat 205, snatch 185, 
clean 275, 40 consecutive pull-ups, 100 consecutive sit-ups, 100 consecutive 
air squats, 3:00 Fran, 28 round Cindy 

### Did not attempt

315 bench press, 100 consecutive push-ups, split jerk 250, 150lb weighted 
pull-up, King Kong 

### Failure

Run 400m in 1:00, run 800m in 2:30, run 1600m in 5:45, run 5000m in 20:00, 
Murph in 30:00 

Looking at the above, the pattern is pretty clear: my [CF strength/power 
hybrid 
routine](https://www.ybrikman.com/writing/2009/07/12/crossfit-strengthpower-hybrid/) 
did a great job of developing strength, power, muscular endurance and 
conditioning in interval/circuit style CF workouts. There were a few items 
that I never attempted due to a shoulder injury (bench press, push-ups, split 
jerk) or a lack of equipment (don't have a dip belt for weighted pull-ups and 
I was supposed to try King Kong this week, but don't have access to bumper 
plates). Finally, I failed on all the tasks that involved primarily 
monostructural cardio&mdash;in particular, running. 

## Treadmills are evil 

I think a lot of my troubles with running can be attributed to over-reliance 
on treadmills, which caused a number of issues: 

1. POSE technique on a treadmill is different than outside so I have a lot of 
form errors to fix. This is probably the biggest issue. 
2. I never learned what different running speeds "feel" like since the 
treadmill controlled the speed for me and now I often run too fast or too slow 
outside. 
3. I never developed the mental toughness to maintain a difficult pace and 
often slow down without the treadmill's constant speed to keep pushing me. 
4. I thought my times were better than they really were as running on a 
treadmill is a lot easier. 

## Looking to 2010 

The good news is that my weaknesses are now clear and I know what I need to do 
in the coming year to eliminate them. I should be able to run outside a whole 
lot more in CA, so I'm going to try to fit in more monostructural cardio 
(running and rowing) a few times per week until my technique, pacing and 
mental toughness improve. Given how much I hate running&mdash;which, of course, is 
probably the biggest reason of all why I suck at it&mdash;my workout plan for the 
next few months can be summarized as: 

> Beatings will continue until morale improves.

Will I improve enough to stand a chance at the CF Games sectional qualifier? 
Meh, probably not, but it'll be fun as hell to try. 